feat: Opinion Classification with Kili and HuggingFace AutoTrain (#256)
huggingface/blog: opinion-classification-with-kili.md

---
title: "Opinion Classification with Kili and HuggingFace AutoTrain"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili/thumbnail.png
---

<h1>
    Opinion Classification with Kili and HuggingFace AutoTrain
</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published April 1, 2022.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/opinion-classification-with-kili-technology-and-huggingface-autotrain.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/alperiox">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/34214152" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>alperiox</code>
            <span class="fullname">Alper Balbay</span>
            <span class="bg-gray-100 rounded px-1 text-gray-600 text-sm font-mono">guest</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

## Introduction

> Understanding your users’ needs is crucial in any user-related business. But it also requires a lot of hard work and analysis, which is quite expensive. Why not leverage machine learning then? With much less coding by using Auto ML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Understanding your users’ needs is crucial in any user-related business. But it also requires a lot of hard work and analysis, which is quite expensive. Why not leverage Machine Learning then? With much less coding by using Auto ML.
```

In this article, we will leverage [HuggingFace AutoTrain](https://huggingface.co/autotrain) and [Kili](https://kili-technology.com/) to build an active learning pipeline for text classification. [Kili](https://kili-technology.com/) is a platform that empowers a data-centric approach to Machine Learning through quality training data creation. It provides collaborative data annotation tools and APIs that enable quick iterations between reliable dataset building and model training. Active learning is a process in which you add labeled data to the data set and then retrain a model iteratively. Therefore, it is endless and requires humans to label the data. 

As a concrete example use case for this article, we will build our pipeline by using user reviews of Medium from the Google Play Store. After that, we are going to categorize the reviews with the pipeline we built. Finally, we will apply sentiment analysis to the classified reviews. Then we will analyze the results, understanding the users’ needs and satisfaction will be much easier.

## AutoTrain with HuggingFace

> Automated machine learning is a term for automating a machine learning pipeline. It also includes data cleaning, model selection, and hyper-parameter optimization too. We can use HuggingFace’s [transformers](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/auto) for automated hyper-parameter searching. Hyper-parameter optimization is a really difficult and time-consuming process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automated Machine Learning is a term for automating a Machine Learning pipeline. It also includes data cleaning, model selection, and hyper-parameter optimization too. We can use 🤗 transformers for automated hyper-parameter searching. Hyper-parameter optimization is a difficult and time-consuming process.
```

Cleaning the data, model selection, and hyper-parameter optimization steps are all fully automated in AutoTrain. One can fully utilize this framework to build production-ready SOTA transformer models for a specific task. Currently, AutoTrain supports binary and multi-label text classification, token classification, extractive question answering, text summarization, and text scoring. It also supports many languages like English, German, French, Spanish, Finnish, Swedish, Hindi, Dutch, and [more](https://huggingface.co/docs/autonlp/supported_languages.html). If your language is not supported by AutoTrain, it is also possible to use custom models with custom tokenizers.

## Kili

[Kili](https://kili-technology.com/) is an end-to-end AI training platform for data-centric businesses. Kili provides optimized labeling features and quality management tools to manage your data. You can quickly annotate the image, video, text, pdf, and voice data while controlling the quality of the dataset. It also has powerful APIs for GraphQL and Python which eases data management a lot. 

> It is available either online or on-premise and it enables modern machine learning technics either on computer vision or on NLP and OCR. It supports text classification, named entity recognition (NER), relation extraction, and more NLP/OCR tasks. It also supports computer vision tasks like object detection, image transcription, video classification, semantic segmentation, and many more! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is available either online or on-premise and it enables modern Machine Learning technics either on computer vision or on NLP and OCR. It supports text classification, named entity recognition (NER), relation extraction, and more NLP/OCR tasks. It also supports computer vision tasks like object detection, image transcription, video classification, semantic segmentation, and many more! 
```

Kili is a commercial tool but you can also create a free developer account to try Kili’s tools. You can learn more from the [pricing](https://kili-technology.com/pricing/) page.

## Project

We will work on an example of review classification, along with sentiment analysis, to get insights about a mobile application.

> I have extracted around 40 thousand reviews of Medium from the Google Play Store. We will [annotate the review texts](https://kili-technology.com/blog/text-annotation-in-machine-learning-an-overview/) in this dataset step by step. And then we’re going to build a pipeline for review classification. In the modeling, the first model will be prepared with AutoTrain. Then we will also build a model without using AutoTrain. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have extracted around 40 thousand reviews of Medium from the Google Play Store. We will [annotate the review texts](https://kili-technology.com/blog/text-annotation-in-machine-learning-an-overview/) in this dataset step by step. And then we’re going to build a pipeline for review classification. In the modeling, the first model will be prepared with AutoTrain. Then we will also build a model without using AutoTrain. 
```

All the code and the dataset can be found on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/alperiox/review-classification-kili-hf-automl) of the project.

## Dataset

Let’s start by taking a look at the raw dataset,

![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili/1.png)

There are 10 columns and 40130 samples in this dataset. The only column we need is `content` which is the review of the user. Before starting, we need to define some categories.

> I have defined 4 categories, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have defined 4 categories, 
```

- Subscription: Since medium has a subscription option, anything related to users' opinions about subscription features should belong here.
- Content: Medium is a sharing platform, there are lots of writings from poetry to advanced artificial intelligence research. Users’ opinions about a variety of topics, the quality of the content should belong here.
- Interface: Thoughts about UI, searching articles, recommendation engine, and anything related to the interface should belong here. This also includes payment-related issues.
- User Experience: The user’s general thoughts and opinions about the application. Which should be generally abstract without indicating another category.

> For the labeling part, we need to create a project in Kili’s platform at first. We can use either the web interface of the platform or APIs. I’ll show them both. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the labeling part, we need to create a project in Kili’s platform at first. We can use either the web interface of the platform or APIs. Let's see both.
```

> From the web interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**From the web interface:**
```

> From the project list page, I created a multi-class text classification project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the project list page, we create a multi-class text classification project.
```

![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili/2.png)

After that, on the project’s page, you can add your data by clicking the Add assets button. Currently, you can add at most 25000 samples, but you can extend this limit if you contact the Kili sales team.

After we create our project, we need to add jobs. We can prepare a labeling interface from the Settings page

I have defined 4 categories but it is inevitable to come across reviews that should have multiple categories or completely weird ones. I will add two more labels (which are not to use in modeling) to catch these cases too.

> In our example, I added two more labels (Other, Multi-label). I also added a named entity recognition (NER) job just to specify how I decided on a label while labeling. The final interface is shown below

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our example, we added two more labels (Other, Multi-label). We also added a named entity recognition (NER) job just to specify how we decided on a label while labeling. The final interface is shown below
```

![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili/3.png)

As you can see from the menu at the left, it is also possible to drop a link that describes your labels on the `Instructions` page. We can also add other members to our project from `Members` or add quality measures from the `Quality management` pages. More information can be found in the [documentation](https://cloud.kili-technology.com/docs/overview/introduction-to-kili-technology.html).

> Now, let’s create our project with Python API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Now, let’s create our project with Python API:**
```

    if L>25000:
        print('Kili Projects currently supports maximum 25000 samples as default. Importing first 25000 samples...')
        L=25000

    i = 0

    while i+subset_size < L:
        
        subset = dataset.iloc[i:i+subset_size]

        externalIds = subset[external_id_column].astype(str).to_list()
        contents = subset[text_data_column].astype(str).to_list()
        
        kili.append_many_to_dataset(project_id=project_id,
                                    content_array=contents,
                                    external_id_array=externalIds)

        i += subset_size

    return True
```

It simply imports the given `dataset` DataFrame to a project specified by project_id.

We can see the arguments from docstring, we just need to pass our dataset along with the corresponding column names. I’ll just use the sample indices we get when we load the data. And then voila, uploading the data is done!

```python
dataset_path = '../data/processed/lowercase_cleaned_dataset.csv'
df = pd.read_csv(dataset_path).reset_index() # reset index to get the indices

import_dataframe(project_id, df, 'content', 'index')
```

> It wasn’t difficult to use the Python API, the helper methods we used covered many difficulties. I also used another script to check the new samples when I updated the dataset. Sometimes the model performance drop down after the dataset update. This is due to simple mistakes like mislabeling and introducing bias to the dataset. The script simply authenticates and then moves distinct samples of two given dataset versions to `To Review`. We can change the property of a sample through `update_properties_in_assets` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It wasn’t difficult to use the Python API, the helper methods we used covered many difficulties. We also used another script to check the new samples when we updated the dataset. Sometimes the model performance drop down after the dataset update. This is due to simple mistakes like mislabeling and introducing bias to the dataset. The script simply authenticates and then moves distinct samples of two given dataset versions to `To Review`. We can change the property of a sample through `update_properties_in_assets` method:
```

    train_dataset = TextClassificationDataset(train_set)
    val_dataset = TextClassificationDataset(val_set)
    test_dataset = TextClassificationDataset(test_set)

    # tokenize the datasets
    tokenized_train_set = train_dataset.map(tokenize)
    tokenized_val_set = val_dataset.map(tokenize)
    tokenized_test_set = test_dataset.map(tokenize)

    # finally return the processed sets
    return tokenized_train_set, tokenized_val_set, tokenized_test_set
```

Now we can perform the search! Let’s start by processing the data:

```python
tokenized_train_set, tokenized_val_set, tokenized_test_set = prepare_datasets(dataset)

training_args = TrainingArguments(
    'trial_results',
    evaluation_strategy="steps",
    disable_tqdm=True,
    skip_memory_metrics=True,
)

trainer = Trainer(
    args=training_args,
    tokenizer=tokenizer,
    train_dataset=tokenized_train_set,
    eval_dataset=tokenized_val_set,
    model_init=model_init,
    compute_metrics=compute_metrics
    )

best_run = trainer.hyperparameter_search(
    direction="maximize", 
    n_trials=n_trials,
    backend="ray",
    search_alg=search_algorithm,
    scheduler=scheduler
    )
```

> I performed the search with 20 and 40 trials respectively, the results are shown below. The weighted average of F1, Recall, and Precision scores for 20 runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We performed the search with 20 and 40 trials respectively, the results are shown below. The weighted average of F1, Recall, and Precision scores for 20 runs.
```

![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili/12.png)

The weighted average of F1, Recall, and Precision scores for 40 runs.

![](assets/59_opinion-classification-with-kili/13.png)

The performance spiked up at the third dataset version. At some point in data labeling, I’ve introduced too much bias to the dataset mistakingly. As we can see its performance becomes more reasonable since the sample variance increased later on. The final model is saved at Google Drive and can be downloaded from [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1X_ci2Pwu0-1XbXsaCksQHZF0254TIHiD?usp=sharing), it is also possible to download via the [download_models.py](https://github.com/alperiox/review-classification-kili-hf-automl/tree/master/scripts) script. 

## Final Analysis

We can use the fine-tuned model to conduct the final analysis now. All we have to do is load the data, process it, and get the prediction results from the model. Then we can use a pre-trained model for sentiment analysis and hopefully get insights.

> I’ve used google collaboratory for the inference ([here](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1kGYl_YcMmA2gj6HnYFzkcxSDNPlHjYaZ?usp=sharing)) and then exported the results to [result.csv](https://github.com/alperiox/review-classification-kili-hf-automl/tree/master/results). It can be found in `results` in the GitHub repository. I analyzed the results in another [google collaboratory notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1TOX7tqJ7SGbUDWwA_6D1y-U0aNNXY04Q?usp=sharing) for an interactive experience. So you can also use it easily and interactively. 

Author: @osanseviero Can you please fix the typo "Wee" -> "We" in the commit suggestion?
